welcome to the screencast for splice
splices an app for iOS for your iPad
your iPod Touch or your iPhone and this
allows you to edit together video so
here's the icon for splice already
installed on my device I'm going to tap
on that and go into splice and we'll
give you a little run-through for how to
build a project and export it and
basically put together a movie right on
your iOS device so here in splice you
start a new project by clicking or
tapping on the plus up here so I'm going
to tap plus and you should name your
project with your class hour followed by
space your last name followed by space
and whatever topic your teacher gives
you so I'll type that out I'll hit done
the next screen gives you your project
settings please choose for the HD SD
choice please choose standard definition
and you can just do that by tapping on
the HD and changing it to SD border
there are some borders built in that
will show around your movie if they make
sense to your project and relate to your
project go ahead and use those otherwise
you can choose no border orientation
should stay as landscape crossfade is
your default transition that just means
the kind of effect that will take place
from one video clip or picture to the
next and you can change that if you'd
like you can always edit that later in
your project so I'm going to leave that
that way and hit done so here is how I
lay out my project I want to first have
to choose the very first thing that
should appear so logically I'm going to
choose a title and I'm going to tap to
enter my text and so this is going to be
called introduction to forest park and I
hit done you'll notice it says up here
you can move and scale this so by
touching on my device I can move this
around or I can do a pinch-to-zoom
motion with my two fingers to stretch
that out and make it bigger
good title should be in the center
duration I will I would suggest a good
duration for a title slide is about four
to five seconds so adjust that
accordingly and then you can go up and
hit done so there is my first object in
my movie now you'll see once you have
something here these little icons appear
on both side
of this clip so the plus means I want to
add something after the clip here if I
were to click here I would add something
before the clip the pencil allows me to
edit that item so I'm going to hit the
plus on the bottom right here and next
I'm going to add some videos or photos
so I'm going to tap on that this will
take me to my albums area and any videos
I shot already are in my camera roll
area so I'll go into camera roll and
I'll scroll down and here are some video
clips I shot for this project now the
order you tap on these or the order
they'll be put into the project so I'm
going to have the sign be first followed
by walking in the doors followed by the
wall of winners and I'm going to hit
done in the top corner I get a message
that says do you want those default
transitions already inserted between
these clips I'll say yes so that means a
crossfade will automatically appear
between those Clips so you'll see this
as loading so just be patient here this
is spinning showing that something's
happening and what that something is is
these clips are now being laid out in my
project so now if I use my finger and I
scroll across here here's the first clip
here's a transition here's a second clip
okay now when I just tap on one of these
objects I get my choices again I could
add something here if needed I could add
something here if needed or I could use
the pencil to edit I'm going to go ahead
and show you the edit when you edit a
video clip there are different choices
this is to trim the clip I can see that
this is 22 seconds long so that's a
little too long for an intro clip i'm
going to i'm going to edit that down
here in a second this is to change the
speed of this clip this is to crop this
clip this is to duplicate this clip
maybe you need two of them back-to-back
for some reason and this is to trash
this clip so let's go ahead and tap on
the scissors so here's this clip what I
did was I shot my video of the sign and
as I move this little blue dot this
allows me to select whatever is inside
this little white box between the blue
dots is what I'm going to trim too so
what I did was I shot the sign and I
shot the front of the building so I'm
going to scroll through here slowly and
that's where I want my clip to start so
I'm going to start on the sign and then
I know I move the camera to look at the
building so that's the part I want to
keep I can use this play
button to play that clip just to kind of
see and make sure that's the way I want
it to look that looks good so I'm going
to hit done so now that clip has been
trimmed down and you'll see it's about
five seconds and then it'll go to a
crossfade we'll see that in the final
version here so now here's this clip
this one again is a little bit of a
longer clip this is a shot of someone
walking in the building so I'm going to
edit this and trim this down as well so
I know that I want to start this little
closer just to save time show the hand
opening the door and I know there was
people talking in the hallway so I'm
going to back this up a little bit and
right about there and again I could play
that if I needed to I'm going to hit
done so this is how you layout your
video and so as you do this you can put
transitions between these video clips
and lay everything out in order if you
need to mess with the audio at all you
can go up here and tap on audio we've
only been doing video so far when you're
in the audio area this this is optional
you can adjust you could tap on the
sounds up here this is the video clip
that's showing and this is the sound for
that clip so if I needed to edit some of
that and maybe make this quiet because I
wanted to put some music in or record
myself with a voiceover I could tap that
clip and I could adjust this slider to
make that go quiet or I could put fade
ins or fade outs there's a lot of cool
stuff you can do in here but again
mostly optional I can use this little
slider here to adjust where I want sound
effects to occur and if I wanted to add
a voiceover that's what this microphone
track is for or if I want to add sound
effects or music that's what these two
tracks are for so again that's optional
you can play with that if needed when
you're all set and done we'll go back to
video here you can go up to preview
preview puts together the movie and you
can watch it before exporting it so I
can click play I can watch the video
play and I should point out when this
clip is exported these ads will not be
here so there's my clip plane they
notice a crossfade that little blur into
the next next clip so I'll go ahead and
stop that I'm going to go up to export
because I want to send this off so when
I go to export I get a choice of low
medium or high quality I'm going to
choose the high 640 by 480 quality this
video will render meaning that it puts
it all together as a finished movie with
all the effects and all the changes you
made that finished movie will be put in
your photos area on the device it'll be
in the camera roll so your teacher will
give you instructions on how you're to
turn that in some teachers will have you
email it to them directly some will have
you email it to a YouTube account so
please check with your teacher for
instructions on what to do next and that
is splice nice little quick video
editing app thanks so much for watching